# sealR
 Repo for common functions from SEAL lab at NCSU

## Adding functions to this package
This how-to comes from https://hilaryparker.com/2014/04/29/writing-an-r-package-from-scratch/

### Example
Let's say you love dogs so much, you don't want just one picture of a dog at a time to cheer you up. You want 10 of them (or 100. or 1000). This is a real-world example.
- to see what this looks like when completed, use the website above or run the code below to follow along:
```r
devtools::install_github("mcgregorian1/sealR")
library(sealR)
?doggo
```

First, it's helpful to be using the sealR.Rproj. Otherwise, you need to setwd("./sealR").

Create a new .R file containing only the function and save in the "R" folder of this repo.
```r
doggo <- function(num){
    if(!require(pupR)){devtools::install_github("melissanjohnson/pupR"); library(pupR)}
    
    replicate(num, pupR())
}
```
Then add the documentation lines like this. You don't need to save.
```r
#' A Dog Function
#'
#' This function allows you to express your love of dogs.
#' @param num Do you love dogs? The number corresponds to how many dog pictures you would like to see to cheer you up.
#' @keywords dogs
#' @export
#' @examples
#' doggo()
 
doggo <- function(num){
    library(pupR)
    
    replicate(num, pupR())
}
```

Now in the console, run the following. This will automatically save and add the documentation to the package.
```r
library(dev_tools)
library(roxygen2)
document()
```

That's it! To install the new version of the package, use `install_github("mcgregorian1/sealR")`.

### Notes for updating packages
I've noticed a situation where even when you update the documentation for a package and re-download the package using `devtools`, the help file is not updated. If you run across this, then do the following steps to force the `.rd` file to change (this is generated by the `roxygen` package as the Help file that R uses).
- Clone the sealR repository to your computer.
- In R, run `roxygen2::roxygenise("/Volumes/GoogleDrive/My Drive/github/sealR")`.
- Then load the version of the package that's now updated, using `devtools::load_all("/path/to/package/folder")`
- Check the help file and make sure it looks good. `?sealR::packageName`.
- Once you're glad with it, push to GitHub. Now when you download the package again using `devtools`, it will be fully fixed.

I'm not sure why this is happening - normally the updating of the `.rd` file should automatically occur via `roxygen` when you compile and download the package to R, but oh well.
